Reading Makes Us Wise!
The Smallest Boy with the Biggest Dreams!
26
Devastedandlonely,Leowassittinginadarkroomsincethelasttwohourswhile
his father was patiently waiting for him in the lounge outside. They had just come back
from the hospital where the doctor broke the news that the boy suffered from a growth
hormone deficiency. This meant he was physically unable to grow unless he received
special treatment, which would span three years and cost $1,500 per month. It was an
unaffordable cost of treatment for this modest working-class family. Unable to cover
such a costly treatment, his father was left with no choice but to request Leo's football
club to bear with these enormous medical charges. His club could hand over only a
small amount to his embarrassed father and could not do much to help him bear the
expensesofhismedicaltreatment.
LeowasbornonJune24,1987,inthewarmcityofRosario,Argentina.Hewasthe
third child in a tight-knit, hard-working family who fervently loved football. His two
older brothers and cousins would constantly go out to play, and as soon as he was able,
Leo tagged along. But the rest of the boys were much older than Leo, and were hesitant
to let him join in. His grandmother who always went with him, insisted they allow him
to play too. After watching Leo take his first football steps, she later convinced Leo's
mother to buy him his first pair of cleats. At four years old, Leo joined the
local
club, and soon football became as important for him as the air he breathed. He
practiced day in and day out, skipping outings with his friends to train at home before a
game. The sport made him inexplicably happy and motivated and he began to dream of
becoming a professional footballer. But after his medical reports this dream seemed
impossiblewithnowaytomeettheexpensesofhistreatment.Butthenitallhappened.
Grandoli
mo
ng Leo
s first pa
football
in and d
he sport m
ming a pr
ible
Book
thewarm
hewarm
king famil
g famil
d constant
d constant
of the boy
er w
Foundation
hour
just come
st come
red from a
red from
ow unless
w unless
,500 per m
500 per m
class fami
ass fam
oice but to
ce but to
es. His clu
. His clu
ould not d
ould not
Click https://bit.ly/FG-Books to download all PDF FG books for FREE