76
I am home to man and give him all forms of life to dwell and prosper. He is
workinganddevelopingtirelesslytomakehislifeluxuriouswithoutgivingathoughtto
myfuture.Myenormousnaturalresourcesarebeingdugouttoincreasethewealthofa
few. Centuries old reservoirs of fossil fuels like coal and oil are being burnt to run the
ever increasing number of industries. My forests are being cut down to clear more
spaces for dwellings and has made many species of animals and birds living in these
forests extinct. Man does not realise that the unchecked cutting down of trees has not
onlydeprivedthosespeciesoftheirhomebuttheoxygenbanknecessaryforhumanlife
is also depleting. There are unlimited species of life which were my friends but they are
notwithmetoday.
I appreciate that the humankind is very innovative and smart and tirelessly
works to make advancements in the field of technology. Sky scrappers and the ever
growing industry are some examples of this development. But I fear that man has not
estimated the amount of harmful gases which are emitting from the industries and
their effects on life on Earth in general. Such developments have led to pollution of all
kinds where air, water and land are equally disturbed. My waters are full of man-made
garbage and life in water is choking with death. I miss my fresh breeze because today
air is full of unpleasant odours and harmful gases emitted from industries. I feel sorry
for my soil for it has to deal with large amounts of plastics and other types of garbage
whichcannotbeprocessednaturally.
NowIambecomingwarmerdaybydayandIfearthatsoonmoreandmorewater
willbeevaporatedandmyfriendslivinginwaterwillbelosingtheirhomes.Myglaciers
have already started melting and my beautiful friends living in polar regions are
worriedabouttheirhomes.Meltingicewillnotonlydepriveanimalsandplantsoftheir
homesonthetwopoles,butwillalsoraisewaterlevelsinoceans,eventuallyhumanlife
around oceans will be destroyed. My climate is rapidly changing and weather
conditions of many countries are becoming hostile for people living in them. Floods,
drought, acid rains, bush fires, and earthquakes are some of the natural calamities
resulting from man-made hazards. I am not used to living in the temperature I am
facingnowandIfearthatitwillincreaseincomingyears.Lifewillbeinrealdanger,and
I can just hope that the humankind thinks think about it now or there will be no time
lefttoact.
natu
gwarm
dmyfr
tarted m
ttheir
onthetwo
nd ocean
ns
ch d
ly distu
with dea
and harm
th larg
l
Foundation
ving in
ng in
of trees h
f trees h
ssaryforh
saryforh
my friends
y friend
tive and s
e and s
logy. Sky s
y. Sky s
lopment.
pment.
h are emi
h are em
velop
velo
Click https://bit.ly/FG-Books to download all PDF FG books for FREE