For the new city, it was decided that the design of buildings
would be a blend of Islamic architecture and modern
patterns. The constitution avenue presents the best of the
examples with buildings like Supreme Court, National
Assembly and Prime Minister’s
Secretariat etc.
The
beauty of the cityisfurtherenhanced with Margalla hillsin
thebackground. Thedivisionofthesectorsismarkedwith
double roads and green belts where we see trees,
blossoms, flowers and fruits. The long and straight blue area road shows offices and
buildingsofdifferent designs.Shopping areas and minimarkets provideus products of
local and foreign markets. There are many picnic spots, play grounds and trails in the
mountains for walking and cycling. Rawal Lake offers water sports and lovely green
gardens.Thesearealltheluxuriesofaplannedtown.Weneedtoshowourgratitudefor
the efforts of thousands of people who planned, designed and constructed the town for
us.
The heart of Islamabad is Faisal Mosque with its location in the lap of the mountains.
This is the first sight which welcomes anyone entering Islamabad from 8 avenue.
th
The
mosque was designed by a Turkish architect Vedat
Dalokay whose design won an international
competition held in 1969.
The look of Faisal
mosque is inspired by a Bedouin's tent. Bedouins
are people of the desert and the tribe is known for
their culture in Arabia. King Faisal bin Abdul Aziz of
Saudi Arabia made the suggestion and funded the
construction as a gift to the people of Pakistan. This
design is inspired by the first mosque in Medina
which was in the form of a tent.
It has four tall
minarets (90m) influenced by Turkish architecture. The shape of the mosque is eight-
sided shell shaped sloping roofs. It does not have a typical green dome of a mosque for
whichitwascriticizedinthebeginningbutafteritscompletion,everybodyappreciated
its glory and greatness. Faisal mosque is one of the biggest mosques in the world with
tenthousandpeopleofferingtheirprayersatthesametime.
65
N
 
National Book 
ue with it
e with it
mes anyone
s anyon
mosqu
mosq
Da
Da
B
Foundatio
road show
ad show
kets provid
ts provid
play grou
lay grou
rs water s
water s
wn.Wenee
n.Wenee
d, designe
d, designe
io
Click https://bit.ly/FG-Books to download all PDF FG books for FREE