Glossary When a solid becomes liquid on heating. Melting: Micro-organisms: All those too small organisms that can be seen only under a microscope. Microscope: An instrument used to see objects that are too small to be seen by the naked eyes. Molluscs: Soft bodied invertebrates; in some of them the body is enclosed ina shell. Akingdom that contains single celled organisms such as bacteria. Monera: The flowering plants whose seeds have one cotyledon. Monocot plants: An unpleasant sound. Noise: Non-biodegradable: Asubstance or material not capable of being decomposed. Opaque object: The object which does not allow light to pass through it. It is an electric circuit with switch OFF and current does not flow through it. Open Circuit: Pathogen: Microorganism that causes diseases. Physical change: Achange that occurs in a matter resulting into no new substance. Planet: A heavenly object which revolves around another bigger heavenly object due to its gravity. Plantae: Akingdom that contains organisms that are usually green in colour and make their own food. Plumb line: A device used to keep a wall vertically straight. The transfer of pollen grain from anther to the stigma. Pollination: Protista: A kingdom that contains organisms that have characteristics of both plants and animals such as bacteria. Reproduction: The biological process by which new offsprings are produced by their parents. Vertebrates with thick, scaly and dry skin, whose development takes place through eggs. Reptiles: Satellite: A heavenly body which moves around the Earth or any other planet. The dark shade formed behind an opaque object when light falls on it. Shadow: A device to check the level of a horizontal surface. Spirit level: Invertebrate aquatic animals that have bodies full of pores. Sponge: The kind of electricity which does not flow ina circuit. Static electricity: Translucent object: The object which allows light partially to pass through them. Transparent object: The object which allows light to pass through it. Virus: Small infectious particles having characteristics of both living and non-living organisms. Invertebrate animals that have thin and soft bodies. Worms: