Glossary ‘ Glossary Amphibians: The vertebrates that can live both on land and in water; their development takes place in water. Akingdom that contains organisms that cannot make their own food. Animalia: The smallest particle of a substance. Atom: Bacteria: Single celled organisms that live in all types of environments; these may be beneficial or harmful. Biodegradable: Asubstance or object capable of being decomposed. The variety of living organisms at any particular place. Biodiversity: Birds: Vertebrates having feathers and beak and their development takes place through eggs. Chemical change: Achange that occurs in a matter resulting into a new substance. Classification: The arrangement of organisms into separate groups according to their similarities and differences. Acomplete path for the electric current to flow through it. Close circuit: The change of water vapours into liquid. Condensation: Conductor: The material which allows the electric current or heat to pass through it. The central part of the Earth. Core: The outermost layer of the Earth. Crust: The flowering plants whose seeds have two cotyledons. Dicot plants: Echinoderms: Spiny-skinned invertebrates which are found only in the sea. The path of electric current. Electric circuit: Flow of electric charge. Electric current: Electromagnet: Atemporary magnet made when electric current passes through a coil around an iron rod. The process of turning water (liquid) into vapours. Evaporation: First Aid: Aninstant treatment given to an injured person. Fish: Vertebrates that live in water, breathe through gills and have scales on their bodies. Freezing: When aliquid becomes solid on cooling. A kingdom that contains many celled organisms that obtain food by absorbing nutrients Fungi: from the place where they live. Apiece of thin wire inserted in an electric circuit or appliance for safety purpose. Fuse: The matter in the soil made up from dead plants and animals. Humus: Invertebrate animals having jointed legs. Insects: Insulator: The material which does not allow to pass electric current or heat through it. Luminous objects: The objects which emit their own light. Magnetic Compass: A device used to find the directions at any place. Magnetic objects: The objects which are attracted by a magnet. Mammals: Animals that give birth to young ones and feed them on milk. Mantle: The part of the Earth in between the crust and core.